What tech giant has a connected
ecosystem of products, a devoted fan
base, and is constantly innovating? If
you're in the US, you may say Apple, but
in China, it's Xiaomi.
>> It's this consistent marketing to the
younger consumers in China that has
cultivated kind of a cult following.
>> For many consumers in China, Xiaomi is
Apple, is Tesla, is Google. Now Xiaomi
has managed what Apple failed to do.
Build a car.
Xiaomi shares have touched a record high
after strong initial orders for its new
$35,000 SUV.
>> Within 3 years, they managed to set up
this very complicated supply chain in
China and essentially turn out these
incredibly popular cars.
Profits have jumped as customers rushed
to the company's latest offerings. But
succeeding in the world's most crowded
EV market isn't easy.
Competition is really fierce right now.
>> Growth will mean turning Xiaomi into a
global brand. And this is no easy task
when the world's biggest economy is
effectively off limits because of trade
barriers. Yet, Chinese companies are
already tapping markets beyond the US.
So, is Xiaomi on easy street or will it
be a bumpy road to success?
Xiaomi is one of China's biggest
smartphone and electronics companies.
>> Their phones are innovative, creative in
by design, but in the meantime, it's
much cheaper than topline competitors
like Samsung and Apple. The quality of
the phone may not be as good as iPhones,
but if you look at the operating system,
that's something that will get buyers.
>> The company's image is inseparable from
its founder. Think Apple and Steve Jobs.
That's how China sees Xiaomi and its
CEO, Leun.
>> Leun is a big reason for why the company
has been so successful. Xiaomi's first
product was for the Android operating
system, but it quickly moved on. By
2014, it was China's most popular
smartphone.
Xiaomi's products tapped directly into
the modern consumer's desire for
connectivity.
>> They are selling lots of things.
>> Toothbrushes, scooters, cat feeders,
watches,
>> and even mattress. I mean, what kind of
tech company sells mattress?
The goal that Xiaomi is trying to
achieve is to seamlessly integrate
Xiaomi's products into almost every
corner of your life.
>> The EV project is to fill in that void
for Xiaomi so that it can build a fuller
ecosystem for its users.
>> But there was another reason. In 2021,
the company's growth hit a roadblock.
All right.
>> The biggest reason for Xiaomi to enter
into EVs was because of US sanctions and
that actually put Xiaomi management into
a panic because smartphones was still
quite a big chunk of their revenue at
that time.
>> What shall we do?
>> The board was actually asking Leun, what
are you going to do if you can't sell
smartphones anymore? So, when it was
first brought up, Leun was struggling a
lot. Leen wrestled with the idea for a
good reason.
>> Many people say EVs are actually
smartphones with wells, but it's much
complicated than that.
>> If you're making a smartphone, I think
the number of components is probably
over a thousand or 2,000 or so
components. If you're making a car, that
number jumps to tens of thousands of
components and a very extensive supply
chain. Lein admitted that he was not
someone who know about DV that well and
then you have to bring in talents right
the best way to do that is to scoop from
other companies.
>> So Leon said about wooing the best
talent from across China's EV industry.
>> Xiaomi's head hunters actually reached
out and basically offered them the
salary that they cannot say say no.
Jile is probably one of the best
examples because their former director
of their research institute decided to
go over to Lein's investment fund. We
also know that executives from BMW, from
other Chinese automakers such as SIC and
Ooling have also joined Xiaomi. With
Talon in hand, Xiaomi threw itself into
all parts of the EV supply chain,
investing over $1.6 6 billion into more
than a 100 companies and eventually
constructing its own factory in Beijing.
>> I don't think we've seen anything like
that in the auto industry, at least
definitely for the China market.
>> In 2024, Xiaomi launched its first car,
the SU7.
All of this has sent Xiaomi's stock
surging, faster than its European
counterparts. Xiaomi has always denied
us, but just looking at Xiaomi's first
EV, the SU7 sedan, a lot of people would
say that it resemble a Porsche tan.
>> They are trying to learn from the best.
And in the meantime, the boundary
between learning and copycatting, I
don't think it's that clear.
>> And Xiaomi has been taking notes on
mistakes as well, avoiding issues which
slowed its competitors down.
So, how did a company largely unknown
outside of China managed to do what
Apple couldn't? Apple and Xiaomi
probably were reaching for different
goals. Apple was really looking to
disrupt the entire automotive industry
with something like a entirely
autonomous car that required no human
assistance. While Xiaomi took a more
grounded approach, it's not a completely
new disruptive product on the market. On
top of this, Xiaomi has proved to be
very efficient at scaling up. It took
230 days for the EV maker to pump out
its first 100,000 units. While for some
of its Chinese competitors, this took
far longer. And it's a good thing, too,
because their cars are selling fast. Its
price tag is part of the reason why. In
China, the starting price for Xiaomi's
SU7 is just over $30,000, and its
follow-up vehicle, the YU7, is around
$35,000.
This makes them competitive alternatives
to Tesla's Model 3 and Model Y.
[Music]
The incredible pace of Xiaomi's EV
development also shows how unique
China's market is. Through the past
decade, the Chinese government has
invested heavily into building out this
charging network as well as a supply
chain that goes everything from
batteries to technology such as lidars.
So all of these state support has meant
that there's a very mature and
sophisticated supply chain to help get a
new brand off the ground. In 2024, just
over 64% of all passenger EV sales were
in China, and China has around 140 EV
manufacturers.
But when looking at a list of the
country's bestselling cars, Xiaomi is a
small player. It's not bad for a company
that has only three years of experience
making EVs, but if you talk about BYD or
Tesla, they are on million level.
>> Xiaomi set an ambitious goal to become
one of the world's top five car makers
within the next 15 to 20 years. To make
that happen, Xiaomi needs to find
customers outside of China. But there
are a lot of hurdles in the way. Similar
to other Chinese automakers, Xiaomi is
going to face a lot of geopolitical
uncertainties as it expands globally.
You've got all of these trade barriers
that regions such as the EU, the US,
Canada, Turkey, they have all introduced
tariffs to try to stave off this wave of
Chinese EV expansion.
>> The US has a 100% tariff on Chinese EVs,
effectively locking Xiaomi out.
It's very very difficult for a Chinese
brand to penetrate that market.
>> The industry dominant player right now
is BYD and you've also got the industry
pioneer Tesla that is actually suffering
a slump in sales. So it's very hard to
say how things will turn out within the
next decade.
[Music]